In 2007, former semiconductor floor
worker at Samsung, Hang Yui, died from
leukemia at the age of 22.
She was one among countless floor
operators responsible for testing and
recycling chips exposed to carcinogenic
chemicals, not in an industrial
accident, but regularly in the
workplace.
In photos and film, her father kneels
outside in public protest, shrunken with
grief, holding a framed black and white
photo of his daughter.
Hang Yumi's parents would go on to form
the coalition supporters for health and
rights of people in the semiconductor
industry or sharps to de demand justice
and occupational regulations from the
Korean government and Samsung. building
on a long history of activism by
semiconductor workers and their allies
across the Pacific like the Silicon
Valley Toxics Coalition.
As we sit here at the as the days
shorten and we surrender to autumn to
speak of a foreseeable technological
future, I must start with death.
All humans on this planet, we all share
the same future. We all will die. Yet,
as monk Ajan Sujart Abijato puts it, how
we get to the coffin is another story.
As many of us here likely know, how we
die is not equal.
An untold number of us are not afforded
a graceful death by old age. Instead, we
meet the de different temporalities of
violence, from war to racialized and
gendered violence to environmental
injustice.
Hang Yumi's death was not a rare case.
It is a death all too common. In a
recent 202023
study, researchers found that among the
majority female semiconductor workforce,
there was a three-fold increase in
mortality from leukemia alone along with
elevated mortality rates from cancer and
lymphoma.
As I visit Shinjulu County in Taiwan,
home of TSMC, the leading global
fabricator of semiconductors and primary
chip supplier to Nvidia,
I think of Hong Yui
in a taxi to the Shinju Science Park,
where the pipes in TSMC's signature red
poke out from the glass clad fabrication
facilities. I think of how she died on
her way to the hospital in her father's
taxi cab. In the science park, I watch
one cargo truck after another carrying
containers of water and hydrochloric
acid. Semiconductor manufacturing
requires an enormous amount of ultra
pure water for the photoiththography
process. And TSMC uses an estimated
57,000
cubic meters a day in its Shinjulu fabs
alone, which is 150 times the annual
amount of water used by the average
American household.
In droughtstricken areas, TSMC resorted
to trucking in water. And while the
industry overall aims to use 90% of its
water, waste water is often inevitable,
often treated and discharged to
surrounding areas.
In 2009, Angela Chen and her team at
National Taiwan University found
elevated levels of PAS forever chemicals
in the river waters, fish, sediment, and
rainwater surrounding the Shinju fabs.
The amounts they found were truly
astounding. There were 100 times the
levels of comparable urban areas in
Japan and the US.
PASS are called forever chemicals
because they resist breakdown lasting
thousands of years remaining toxic to
our earth and our bodies. Despite the
known harms of PAS, semiconductor
industry lobbying groups have
successfully managed to avoid
environmental scrutiny and regulation
across the globe. In the US, some
environmental groups have raised these
concerns after the passage of the CHIPS
act, which you might have heard of um in
the past few years that promised to
bring semiconductor manufacturing and
jobs back quote unquote to America in
this moment of pervasive planetary
computing.
I want you to stand with me here on the
tidal flats of the Fun Yuan mangrove
wetland outside Janggha, Taiwan, which
each gust of wind brings a whiff of
salty brine. From where you sit, can you
smell the salt and the sea?
A few diesel powered tuk tucks zoom by,
bouncing with the netted bags of muscles
and oysters. In the late 2000s, the
health and integrity of this tidal flat
was threatened as the central Taiwan
Science Park in Chang Hua began to
expand, growing to include several
electronics companies such as AU
Optronics
and TSMC.
environmentalists nearby, farmers,
shellfish cultivators, they clashed with
the local government as they contested
the rushed environmental impact
assessment process, raising concerns
about wastewater discharge from the
electronics factories
in Taiwan. As Huame Chu has documented,
opposition to the supposedly green
industries of chip manufacturer have
been drowned out by geopolitical
instability and narratives of economic
development, especially in this moment
of a global AI arms race or this AI
boom.
Underneath the mud of the wetland,
bubbles fizz and form into a chorus of
breath and gasps as thousands of tiny
creatures move pockets of air to the
surface.
Shells line the edges of a small narrow
walkway and remnants of these muscles,
gnarled, chalky rocks that reveal
themselves as oyster shells, twisted
conscience.
These calcium carbonate of shells
straddle the blurry line between living
appendage and ancient rock.
What do you see as marking these shells
as different from the geological media
of quartz and rare earth that allows
servers to hum with emergence and
artificial intelligence? What makes
either of these more alive or less alive
than the other?
The philosopher Achil Mebe marks our
current era as one of necropolitics.
Necro from the Greek meaning corpse. And
while the biopolitical mode frames the
sovereign right as one to kill and
regulate reproduction, the
necropolitical signals the sovereign
right as a power over the living, the
capacity to voluntarily alter the human
species, the power to decide who is able
to live and who must die. Conceptually,
Mebe says the necropolitical is an
inversion between life and death, as if
life was death's medium. Put simply,
it's a normalization that a particular
vision of living and the way we live,
the endless promises of perhaps life
extending properties of the digital
world, transhumanism, feelings of
infinite possibility and power, is
innately based on the substrate of other
people's death in rare earth mines,
genocidal land grabs, and lifealtering
electronics factories. That that is just
simply a temporary, unstoppable
sacrifice for an imagined future.
Futurityity becomes the fetish object
that erases the past and present.
Necropolitical power is enacted at
different speeds marked by violence from
acute wars, the mundane narratives in of
innovation. Drawing upon Elizabeth
Pavanelli and Sylvia Winter,
necropolitics then also relies on the
stark constructed lines between human,
non-human, inert and living, human
versus nature, dead versus alive,
polluted and pure. For example, even
pollution, certain chemicals are not
just, as Max Leberon says, weward
molecules behaving badly. What is
designated safe and not a pollutant in
one moment becomes toxic the next. Think
the history of DDT or temoxifen, a drug
used to treat and prevent breast cancer,
which is also classified by the WH as a
carcinogen. And this same goes for inert
and inanimate objects. Rock and quartz
are named dead, non-living to produce a
silicon wafer, while a shellfish and its
calcium carbonate shell are named alive.
And so really what we face in this
present moment of pervasive imperial
computation, in this event horizon of
devastation is nothing less than a
colliding set of narratives around what
life is, what is alive, and what makes
life worth living. In the 90s and early
2000s, narratives circulated around
posthumanist theory and that the bounded
constructions of what is human and what
is machine that there was an overlap of
sorts, a kind of desirous cyborg as the
marker of a still human- centered
future. Cyborgs seen between human and
machine are rendered as liberatory. She
often a she is part of a narrative that
we are already living on a polluted
earth and have all become cyborgs.
Yet, as we saw earlier, some cyborgs are
immortal and others have their lives cut
short. I'd rather be a cyborg than a
goddess, wrote Donna Heroway. To which I
say now, I'd rather not have the
suffocating categories of human,
machine, and cyborg. I'd rather attend
to a sense of care that extends the
possibility of a good death to all
beings, geological or organic
constructions of the human, machine, and
cyborg. These serve as vectors of
control and exertions of the
necropolitical.
After all, as Misha said earlier, the
designations of who is human have never
been stable, always in intersecting with
social difference. and to reenter
appeals of empathy for only the human is
a dangerous path. And so to this end,
the definition of what a m machine is
also carries its own racialized
overtones of difference with a long
genealogy of this. Take for example this
article in 1888 from the San Francisco
Chronicle written during another boom, a
railroad boom which enables us to sit
here today which enacted untold violence
and land dispossession as well as the
rise of philanthropies um that were
established by the barren to seek to
escape taxes. And so this article is
says uh Chinese traits absence of nerves
in the Mongolian as automatic workmen
capacity for sleep why the is a
dangerous competitor. The article citing
the anatomical sciences and what they
saw as empirical evidence explains how
Chinese coolies supposedly do not
require the same amount of oxygen as
white workers emphasizing their lack of
humanity. In its descriptions, it also
outlines what it sees as a definition of
a machine. That these Chinese coolies
behave as machines that like an
automaton, quote unquote, Chinese
workers will easily embrace monotony
that white workers will continue to find
crushing as well as exercising an
inability to stop working at any hour.
The compulsion to work is framed as
machinic. and being machinic is tied to
this Asian body. So against this binary
of human and machine, only the human,
which is the white male worker, can
think, can find creativity in opposition
to monotony. And these ghostly figures
of belief, these dichotoies still haunt
us today. If you think about narrativ
narrativized anxieties around whether AI
can be creative or not or the t tendency
of what we say the human to rise as the
creative hero against the monotonous
nonsensical machine.
The demarcations of the human versus
artificial also remain present in the
demarcations between living and
non-living. Elizabeth Pavanelli, for
example, points to the case of um two
women sitting down, which is a sacred
Aboriginal site and geological formation
located near Bou Creek in northern
Australia. Manganesees was present at
the site and is said to be the blood of
the two women sitting down. However, the
mining company OM manganese caused part
of the formation to collapse during a
mining operation. And in 2013, the
mining company was convicted and fined
for sight desecration. Or perhaps
Pavanelli points they should have been
fined for murder. Pavanelli uses this
example to provoke questions around
geoontological power and to unsettle our
taken forranted narrow understandings of
life and livingness. A rock, after all,
is blood is living. And these questions
of life and livingness are not easy
actually to answer from a physics or
chemical standpoint. As theoretical
physicist Sarah Amari Walker writes, she
writes, "What is life? It feels like
such a basic question." And yet
answering it and the subsequent
question, "How did life then originate?"
is extraordinarily difficult. After all,
asking what is life means asking what is
the difference between a set of
chemicals and chemical networks and the
same set of chemicals and chemical
networks spun into human form. How
living is a dormant seed that becomes a
tree? According to Walker, our current
laws of physics are unable to answer
this seemingly simple yet daunting
question.
And so, as I found myself standing in a
motel in Shandong, being followed in
slow motion by an earnest robot a few
weeks before the World Robot Conference
in Beijing, I was reminded of these
questions beyond the markers of what is
living or non-living. In the multipolar
geopolitical landscape, what we view as
cutting edge technology has become even
more contextual and cultural. Against
the isolationism of corporate LLMs and
generative AI in the US, notions of
embodied intelligence and the former
robots have become a sort of national
industrial policy emerging in China and
both hold captive nationalist
imaginations.
Beyond these forms of nationalism is the
bare fact of imperial computing as this
geologic force. And when I see the body
of this object called robot, I see a
complex supply chain, money, capital,
rearrangements of land, labor, violence,
the body of the robot as a vessel for
capital to flow through.
And when I see my own body, I see many
of those same parallels.
As an artist and a writer, my research
into the environmental and bodily
impacts of semiconductor manufacturing
began with an intuitive connection to my
most recent work. Um this is a image of
an install last year which is how our
bodies and eexiles can form a
speculative archive. So actually how
through magnetization of um thread
through embroidery they can become a
soft wearable hard drive for digital
data and a medium for transmission
especially with patterns in in um fabric
as well. And so this is um some work
that I've undertaken with uh my
collaborator David Rios. It is through
this that I want to understand why is it
we call certain objects and not other
objects technological?
What can other forms of computation look
like beyond a form of imperial
computing, screenbased computing? What
forms of data storage and archives
survive the saltwater of our tears and
of the ocean?
In the aftermath of Hurricane Hugo,
Audrey Lord wrote, "The earth is telling
us something about our conduct of living
as well as the our abuse of this
covenant we live upon. This covenant is
not an enduser license agreement." And I
know that there's many of us in this
room and um here today who are shifting
towards a new conduct of living and
computing. Countless researchers,
artists, activists, engineers who
recognize that computing must be
redefined, that it must forge a
different relationship with Earth, that
we are not separate from Earth and that
we are part of it. that these mental
categories of living non-living human
cyborg machine can become distortion
filters that obscure the present moment.
I often think of how Tiknadhan once
taught that at least 70% of our own
bodies are cloud. He said look deeply
and discover the nature of no birth and
no death and find that nothing can die
that nothing can be lost. A cloud does
not die. It transforms into rain. The
rain becomes the creek. The creek flows
down to become a river to the sea and
then cloud again.
In thinking with continuity without
definition, we become open to the new
possibilities of computing and
understanding what we make, the
practices and pleasures of degrowth
emerging in parts of the global north,
the generative technical challenges
around permacing, recycling, repair,
consentful data practices and
stewardship.
It is possible that we are creating
computational paradigms that do not
dispossess or hoard life force and
thriving, but instead support the
constant circulation.
To do so, we know that our tools deserve
graceful transitions, too.
So, in this moment of autumn, let us
hold the image of grief. Let us kneel
before it until it carries us into a
different covenant of one of living and
computing with our earth. Thank you.